---
layout: post
title: The Making of My TEI Code 
---

For this TEI Coding project, I was assigned column 2 on page 651, which included a picture. We used TEI, or Text Encoding Initiative, a type of XML(eXtensible Markup Language) to code our assigned portions of the reading from “The Yellow Wallpaper” (link). At the beginning of the project I didn’t know what to expect at all. I was oblivious to TEI coding and Oxygen XML so it all looked very foreign to me. After annotating our portions in google drive I felt a little better, but was still a little confused as to the correlation between the annotations and the coding itself. Come see how the coding went!

As previously mentioned, I was unaware of why we had to annotate our reading portions in google drive. That became very apparent when we transitioned from google drive to Oxygen. We ended up highlighting things in the reading that specifically needed to be coded. Things such as italics or em dashes. So when it was time to actually code, we would be more comfortable and aware. It was going pretty smoothly the first day of using Oxygen thanks to the instructions of Dr. Stover. 

After the first day I gained a great deal of confidence. Which only lasted about two days. I ran into my first problem that would leave me annoyed all day. You know that there’s a problem because there is a very visible red box by the text. After seeing that same red box for so long I had to take multiple breaks throughout the day. 

I came back to Oxygen with hope that I would finally solve the problem. As soon as I opened up my code I spotted the problem right away. I forgot to “close” one of my paragraph tags. In further detail, in order to code a paragraph you need to use “open”(<p>) and “close”(</p>) tags.  I forgot the slash that closes the paragraph. Which actually shouldn’t have been a problem because Oxygen is supposed to help finish tags for you. So the scenario was a little confusing to me.

After that mistake I’ve learned that coding takes persistence, patience, and precision. When I saw the green box light up (meaning that the code is right) I was so proud of myself for fixing the problem and not giving up. Even though it was a slight problem, it clearly could go a long way. 

I then hit another bump in the road that actually required assistance from Dr. Stover. Once again, it was another minor mistake that was fixed within five minutes. It was another “red box” that was caused from having too much going on in one page. So we created a new page only including the necessities and that turned out to be the solution. 


Overall, I learned a lot from this project. I clearly learned how to use Oxygen or at least I familiarized myself with the coding language. It also helped me to begin understanding the complicity of creating DH projects. I only coded one column, imagine doing a whole paper, website, map, etc. This project helped me gain more knowledge and respect for the Digital Humanities world. Even though this project was a little out of my comfort zone, I ended up appreciating it. 

